docs/index.md, before:

---
title: Remix Docs
description: Remix! brings the best of modern web development without leaving behind the fundamental parts that make it great. Deploy server rendered, code split, dynamic-data driven React apps to any cloud service provider. Experience unparalleled performance and leave the big build process behind.
---

Welcome to Remix! We have put our heart and soul into this project. The API is pretty stable now and now we're tightening the screws on this thing. We don't expect more breaking API changes (but no promises 😅) as we work toward a 1.0 release. These docs are still a bit incomplete and written in a hurry, but they're good enough to get you moving.

## Getting Started

First things first, do the [Quickstart Tutorial](tutorial/1-installation/). After that, we recommend reading the [Remix Philosophy](guides/philosophy).

## Getting help

The [Support](https://remix.run/dashboard/support) page lists several resources to get help, check it out if you're stuck (and you will be, things are changing fast at the moment). We are very active on the [discord server](https://remix.run/dashboard/chat) so you'll probably get help fastest there. Please don't be shy!

And with that, good luck! We hope you love Remix.

Commit message:

Rewrote client transition code with transitionManager
- adds `useTransition` for finer grained control over pending indicators and optimistic UI
- adds "submission keys" to get the transition for a specific form's submissions rather than the global transition, allowing apps to create complex UIs with a lot of mutations happening at the same time
- adds support for concurrent form submissions (#151)
- adds route module `shouldReload` to optimize which routes should reload on form submission reloads or search param changes (#181, #175)
- reloads data when links to the current url are clicked (#128)
- provides state change updates on navigations (#54-ish)
- fixed issues with submitting a form multiple times quickly that completely broke the app before
- is mostly Remix agnostic, so we should be able to bring it over to React Router without to much headache

Closes #151, #181, #175, #128, #54, #208

docs/index.md, after:

---
title: Remix Docs
description: Remix! brings the best of modern web development without leaving behind the fundamental parts that make it great. Deploy server rendered, code split, dynamic-data driven React apps to any cloud service provider. Experience unparalleled performance and leave the big build process behind.
---

Welcome to Remix! We have put our heart and soul into this project. The API is pretty stable now and now we're tightening the screws on this thing. We don't expect more breaking API changes (but no promises 😅) as we work toward a 1.0 release. These docs are still a bit incomplete and written in a hurry, but they're good enough to get you moving.

## Getting Started

- Before anything else, do the [Quickstart Tutorial](tutorial/1-installation/), it'll only take a few minutes and will introduce you to the key concepts, conventions, and APIs in Remix.
- Skim the docs, these are the two you'll end up referencing the most:
  - [Application Module APIs](/api/app)
  - [Remix Package](/api/remix)
- Check out the [Remix Philosophy](guides/philosophy)

## Getting help

The [Support](https://remix.run/dashboard/support) page lists several resources to get help, check it out if you're stuck (and you will be, things are changing fast at the moment). We are very active on the [discord server](https://remix.run/dashboard/chat) so you'll probably get help fastest there. Please don't be shy!

And with that, good luck! We hope you love Remix.
